# Installation Guide

## Pre-Requisites

- [awscli](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/).
- [git](https://git-scm.com/)
  - [AWS CodeCommit Setup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codecommit/latest/userguide/setting-up-https-unixes.html)
- [AWS CloudTrail configured](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-create-and-update-a-trail.html) in the us-east-1 region within the AWS Organizations Master AWS Account.

## Installation Instructions

1. Ensure you have setup [AWS CloudTrail](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/) *(Not the default trail)* in your Master Account that spans **all regions**, the trail itself can be created in any region. Events [triggered via CloudTrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/organizations/latest/userguide/orgs_incident-response.html) for AWS Organizations can only be acted upon in the US East (N. Virginia) Region.

2. In the AWS Console from your master account within **us-east-1**, head over to the Serverless Application Repository *(SAR)*. From there, search for aws-deployment-framework *(or "adf")* (ensure the checkbox *"Show apps that create custom IAM roles or resource policies"* is checked). If you are deploying ADF for the first time, fill in the required parameters for your specific use-case. For example, if you have no AWS Organization or dedicated deployment account already created, you can enter an account name and email address and ADF will create you an AWS Organization, the deployment OU, along with an AWS Account that will be used to house deployment pipelines throughout your Organization. If you already have an AWS Account you want to use as your deployment account you can specify its Account ID in the parameter *DeploymentAccountId* and leave the *DeploymentAccountName* and *DeploymentAccountEmail* empty. Next, specify the *DeploymentAccountMainRegion* parameter as the region that will host your deployment pipelines and would be considered your main AWS region. In the *DeploymentAccountTargetRegions* section of the parameters enter a list of AWS Regions that you might want to deploy your resources or applications into via AWS CodePipeline *(this can be updated whenever)*. Also specify a main notification endpoint *(email)* to receive updates about the bootstrap process. When you have entered all required information press **'Deploy'**.

3. As the stack *serverlessrepo-aws-deployment-framework* completes you can now open AWS CodePipeline from within the master account in us-east-1 and see that there is an initial pipeline execution that has been started. When ADF is deployed for the first time, it will make the initial commit with the skeleton structure of the *aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap* CodeCommit repository. From that initial commit, you can clone the repository to your local environment and make the changes required to define your desired base stacks via AWS CloudFormation Templates, Service Control Policies or Tagging Policies.

4. As part of the AWS CodePipeline Execution from the previous step, the account provisioner component will run *(in codebuild)*. If you let ADF create a new Deployment account for you *(by not giving a pre-existing account id when deploying from SAR)*, then ADF will handle creating and moving this account automatically into the deployment OU. If you are using a pre-existing deployment account, you will need to move the account into the deployment OU from within the Organization console, or add your deployment account into a *.yml* file within the **adf-accounts** folder *(see docs)*. This action will trigger [AWS Step Functions](https://aws.amazon.com/step-functions/) to run and start the bootstrap process for the deployment account. You can view the progress of this in the AWS Step Functions console from the master account in the us-east-1 region.

5. Once the Step Function has completed, switch roles over to the newly bootstrapped deployment account in the region you defined as your main region from step 2. An AWS CodeCommit repository will have been created and will contain the initial skeleton structure committed which serves as a starting point for defining your pipelines throughout your organization. Before defining pipelines, you will most likely want to create more AWS accounts and build out your Organization. Bootstrap further accounts by moving them into the OU that corresponds to their purpose. At this point you can follow the [sample guide](./samples-guide.md) to get started with the samples included in this repository which will show in detail how pipelines function in ADF. **Note** Each account you reference in your `deployment_map.yml` must be bootstrapped into an OU prior to adding it to a pipeline.
